Compute workspace ancestor / descendant / ordered dependency graph (#1983)
jpmorganchase/modular: packages/workspace-resolver/src/resolve-dependencies/README.md

# Dependency resolver API

## computeAncestorSet

From one or more vertices in a graph, compute the flat set of all their
ancestors (excluding the vertices themselves). This function will work with
cycles, since it doesn't compute the dependency order.

```ts
computeAncestorSet(
  originWorkspaces: string[],
  allWorkspaces: Record<string, WorkspaceDependencyObject>,
): Set<string>
```

### Parameters

- `originWorkspaces`: the name of the vertices of which we want to know the
  ancestors
- `allWorkspaces`: a record of workspaces expressed as
  `{ "workspace_name": { workspaceDependencies?: [ 'another_workspace', ...] }, ... }`

### Example

```ts

> const workspaces = {

Reviewer: Shouldn't everything that depends on B also depend on D? Not directly, but they're still ancestors, via B

Reviewer: Nvm, misread the docs

```

```ts
computeAncestorSet(['d', 'b'], workspaces))
// Result:  new Set(['a', 'c', 'e'])
```

## computeDescendantSet

From one or more vertices in a graph, compute the flat set of all their
dependants (excluding the vertices themselves). This function will work with
cycles, since it doesn't compute the dependency order.

```ts
computeDescendantSet(
  originWorkspaces: string[],
  allWorkspaces: Record<string, WorkspaceDependencyObject>,
): Set<string>
```

### Parameters

- `originWorkspaces`: the name of the vertices of which we want to know the
  ancestors
- `allWorkspaces`: a record of workspaces expressed as
  `{ "workspace_name": { workspaceDependencies?: [ 'another_workspace', ...] }, ... }`

### Example

```ts
const workspaces = {
  a: { workspaceDependencies: ['b', 'c'] },
  b: { workspaceDependencies: ['d'] },
  c: { workspaceDependencies: ['b'] },
  d: { workspaceDependencies: undefined },
  e: { workspaceDependencies: ['a', 'b', 'c'] },
};
```

```mermaid
graph TD;
    A-->B;
    A-->C;
    B-->D;
    C-->B;
    E-->A;
    E-->B;
    E-->C;
```

```ts
computeDescendantSet(['a', 'b'], workspaces))
// Result:  new Set(['c', 'd'])
```

## traverseWorkspaceRelations

> Traverses a dependency graph from a single vertix and returns an map from

Reviewer: Small typo: `an map` => `a map`

Reviewer: Also should the term be `vertex`?

> Traverses a dependency graph from a single vertix and returns an map from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Traverses a dependency graph from a single vertex and returns a map from
```

vertices to inverse build order. The order can be used to compute a set of build
steps, where dependencies of the same order can be executed in parallel. This
function will throw in case of cycles, with an exception describing the first
cycle found, because the order can't be computed (e.g. if `a` needs `b` to be
built and `b` needs `a` to be built, their respective order will grow to
`Infinity`).

```ts
traverseWorkspaceRelations(
  workspaceName: string,
  workspaces: Record<string, WorkspaceDependencyObject>
): OrderedDependencies
```

### Parameters

> - `workspaceName`: the name of the starting vertix

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `workspaceName`: the name of the starting vertex
```
